.\" Manpage for hackernews_tim.
.TH HACKERNEWS_TIM 1 "2026-04-23" "hackernews_tim 0.13.5" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hackernews_tim \- terminal user interface for browsing Hacker News
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hackernews_tim
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hackernews_tim
is a fast, customizable Cursive-based terminal UI for browsing Hacker News.
It pulls stories, comments, and search results from the Hacker News Algolia
and Firebase APIs, and can optionally log in to vote on stories and
comments.
.PP
On first run, if no configuration file exists at the
.B \-\-config
path and the terminal is interactive, the program prompts the user to
write a default configuration (light or dark theme). Authentication is
optional: if no authentication file is present and the terminal is
interactive, the user is prompted for HN credentials, which are then
saved to the
.B \-\-auth
path. When either stdin or stdout is not a TTY, both prompts are
skipped so non-interactive invocations do not hang.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\ FILE ",\ \-\-config\ " FILE
Path to the application's configuration file. Defaults to
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hackernews-tim/hn-tui.toml .
On startup, if that file is missing but a legacy
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hn-tui.toml
(or
.IR $HOME/.config/hn-tui.toml )
exists, it is copied into the new location and the original is preserved.
.TP
.BI \-a\ FILE ",\ \-\-auth\ " FILE
Path to the authentication file containing the Hacker News username and
password. Defaults to
.IR $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hackernews-tim/hn-auth.toml ,
with the same legacy-file migration as
.BR \-\-config .
.TP
.BI \-l\ FOLDER ",\ \-\-log\ " FOLDER
Folder in which to write the log file
.RB ( hn-tui.log ).
Defaults to the user's cache directory. The folder is created if it
does not exist.
.TP
.BI \-i\ ID
The Hacker News item id to start the application with. When set,
.B hackernews_tim
opens directly into the comment view for that item instead of the
front page.
.TP
.BI \-\-init\-config\ THEME
Write the embedded default configuration for
.I THEME
.RB ( light\  or\  dark )
to the
.B \-\-config
path and exit. Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-update\-theme .
.TP
.BI \-\-update\-theme\ THEME
Replace only the
.B [theme]
section of the existing
.B \-\-config
file with the latest default for
.I THEME
.RB ( light\  or\  dark )
and exit. Other sections and surrounding comments are preserved.
Errors if the config file does not exist. Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-init\-config .
.TP
.B \-h ,\ \-\-help
Print a short help message and exit.
.TP
.B \-V ,\ \-\-version
Print the version and exit.
.SH KEY BINDINGS
Press
.B ?
inside any view to open the in-app help dialog, which lists every
shortcut active in that view. The tables below cover the global and
scrolling bindings; the per-view bindings (Story, Article, Comment,
Search) are documented in the in-app help and in the project
.B README.
.PP
Global shortcuts:
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
?|Open the help dialog
L|Open the Hacker News login dialog
esc|Close a dialog
q, C-c|Quit the application
backspace, C-p|Go to the previous view
/, C-s|Go to the search view
F1|Front page view
F2|All stories view
F3|Ask HN view
F4|Show HN view
F5|Jobs view
.TE
.PP
Scrolling shortcuts (available in scrollable views):
.TS
tab(|);
l l.
j, down|Scroll down
k, up|Scroll up
d, page_down|Scroll down half a page
u, page_up|Scroll up half a page
g, home|Scroll to top
G, end|Scroll to bottom
.TE
.PP
All bindings can be remapped in the config file. See
.B CONFIGURATION
below.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file is a TOML document. Every field is optional and
merged over the compiled-in defaults. Notable sections:
.TP
.B [theme]
Palette and per-element styles for the TUI.
.TP
.B [keymap]
Global, edit, scroll, and per-view key bindings. Bindings accept
either a single key string or an array of key strings, and support
prefix chords such as
.RI "\fB{" story_id "} g\fR" .
.TP
.B [[custom_keymaps]]
User-defined shortcuts that open a specific story listing
.RB ( front_page ,\  story ,\  ask_hn ,\  show_hn ,\  job )
with a chosen sort mode.
.PP
A documented reference lives in
.IR PREFIX/share/doc/hackernews_tim/config.md ,
and example configurations in
.IR PREFIX/share/hackernews_tim/examples/ .
.SH AUTHENTICATION
Authentication is best-effort. When the auth file is present and
credentials are valid, the client logs in and enables voting
.RB ( v
in the comment view) and the
.B use_hn_topcolor
theme override. Login failures are logged as warnings and the
application continues unauthenticated.
.PP
On each successful login the app captures HN's
.B user=
session cookie and writes it back to the auth file as a
.B session
field. Subsequent runs reuse that cookie to restore the session
without re-POSTing to
.BR /login ,
which Hacker News throttles with a CAPTCHA after repeated attempts.
When the cached session expires the app falls back to the stored
password and refreshes the cookie.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hackernews-tim/hn-tui.toml
Default configuration file path.
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hackernews-tim/hn-auth.toml
Default authentication file path. Stores the Hacker News username,
password, and (after a successful login) a cached
.B session
cookie value in plain text; protect its permissions accordingly.
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hn-tui.toml ",\ " $HOME/.config/hn-tui.toml
Legacy configuration paths from before the app moved its files into
the
.B hackernews-tim
subdirectory. Either is automatically copied into the new default
location on first startup; the original is left in place so the user
can remove it when they are ready.
.TP
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/hn-auth.toml ",\ " $HOME/.config/hn-auth.toml
Legacy authentication paths, migrated the same way.
.TP
.I $XDG_CACHE_HOME/hn-tui.log
Default log file.
.TP
.I PREFIX/share/hackernews_tim/examples/hn-tui.toml
Default light-theme configuration template.
.TP
.I PREFIX/share/hackernews_tim/examples/hn-tui-dark.toml
Default dark-theme configuration template.
.TP
.I PREFIX/share/doc/hackernews_tim/config.md
Configuration reference.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B RUST_LOG
Tracing filter directive. Defaults to
.BR hackernews_tim=info .
.TP
.B XDG_CONFIG_HOME ,\ XDG_CACHE_HOME ,\ HOME
Used to resolve the default
.BR \-\-config ,
.BR \-\-auth ,
and
.B \-\-log
paths.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit, including after
.B \-\-init\-config
or
.BR \-\-update\-theme .
.TP
.B 1
Failed to write or update the configuration file when
.B \-\-init\-config
or
.B \-\-update\-theme
was requested.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run with the default configuration:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
hackernews_tim
.fi
.RE
.PP
Open directly into a specific item's comment thread:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
hackernews_tim -i 8863
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use a custom config, auth file, and log directory:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
hackernews_tim -c ~/.config/hn.toml -a ~/.config/hn-auth.toml -l /tmp
.fi
.RE
.PP
Write the default dark theme to the config path, then exit:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
hackernews_tim --init-config dark
.fi
.RE
.PP
Refresh only the
.B [theme]
table in an existing config with the latest light defaults:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
hackernews_tim --update-theme light
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xdg-open (1),
.BR open (1)
.PP
Project homepage:
.UR https://github.com/aome510/hackernews-TUI
.UE
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at
.UR https://github.com/aome510/hackernews-TUI/issues
.UE .
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Thang Pham and contributors.
